Customs of Indian culture
The uniqueness of such country as India is indisputable. The culture of this country is so rich that many of its aspects are easily recognized and well known around the world. Not many countries can boast with such worldwide recognition. It is no wonder, as Indian culture is one of the oldest cultures of all times. Let's have a look at the traditions and customs in India that make this country so unique.
Tradition
Indians cherish traditions. It is a wisdom that is passed from generation to generation. Due to respect for the traditions for many centuries, India managed to keep its unity, originality and identity.
Family
Citizens of India are very respectful of family values, and the number of divorces is extremely low in comparison with other countries. They also respect seniors in the family whose advice is a high priority. The final word is always after seniors, as they have more experience, and the younger generation has a chance to learn from that.
Diversity
India is often associated with the word "diversity". It is no wonder, as many languages are spoken, many religions are professed, and people of many races are welcomed to live freely in this country.
Clothes and jewelry
India is famous for many things, but its traditional clothes are so distinguishable that they are recognized all over the world. Ethnic Indian saris are recognizable worldwide. Men clothes are as spectacular looking as women's. As for jewelry, it is so exquisite that when you see it, you just want to try it on yourself straight away.
Food
Indian food is popular all over the world. And it is no wonder, as the unique combination of ingredients, herbs and spices makes this food so popular. Also, Indians have quite specific rules in dining. Food is generally served according to hierarchy. Men and children are being served first; however, if there is a guest, so he is a priority. As for women, they may eat after everyone has been served food. Notably, most of the time alcohol is not welcomed on the dining table.
Restrictions in social behavior
In conversation, it is advisable to stand quite away from a person you are talking to, as a sign of respect for their personal space. You need to make sure that you do not touch another person, especially with your shoes or bare feet. Public display of emotions is not welcomed, i.e. either it's anger or affection, emotions need to stay private.
India is for sure a precious gem. It seems that wherever you go, you will end up facing some exclusive piece of art in the form of painting, architecture or simply nature masterpiece. No wonder that this country is such a popular tourist destination. India is a party for mind and soul. You can enjoy the beauty of this country visually as well as spiritually.
Perhaps not everyone knows that Indian culture is one of the oldest, richest and most diverse cultures in the world. India is truly a wonder, and if you have a chance to visit this beautiful and amazing country, just do so. You won't regret that experience. 

