Introduction
Social media remains the most talked about things these days. Many debates are going on regarding the fact that social media is good or bad. There are many views available to us and it is up to us to read and understand properly and reach a conclusion.
Importance of Social Media
Social media platforms help its users to connect, share and give information and content to millions of others. The importance of social media cannot be ignored since it plays a very crucial role in our lives today.
1. Building a brand: Quality content, products and services are easily accessible online today. You can market your product online and build a brand.
2. Customer support: Before buying and product or service customers can read the reviews and feedback and hence make a smart choice.
3. Social media is a great education tool.
4. Through the use of social media platforms you can connect with your target audience.
5. It is also a great way to access quality information.
6. Social media can help you to get the news and happenings in just a click.
7. Social media also helps you connect with friends, relatives and helps you make new friends as well.
Advantages of Social Media: Social media comes with a lot of advantages in fact we can owe a substantial part of our society's growth to social media. We have witnessed a blast of information and content in last few years and cannot deny the power of social media in our lives.
Social media is widely used to create awareness for causes that are important for the society. Social media can also help many noble causes run by NGOs and other social welfare societies. Social media can also aid government in other agencies in spreading awareness and also fight crime. For many businesses social media is strong tool for business promotion and marketing. Many communities are built through social media platforms which are essential for our society's growth.
Disadvantages of Social Media: Social media is considered as one of the most harmful elements that we have in our lives these days. Wrong use can lead to bad conclusion. There are many disadvantages of social media like:
1. Cyberbullying: many children have become the victims of cyberbullying that has caused them a lot of harm.
2. Hacking: The loss of personal data that can lead to security issues. There are crimes like identity theft and bank details theft that can harm any individual.
3. Addiction: Prolonged use of social media can lead to addiction in youth. Addiction causes to lose focus of other important things like studying etc. People get so absorbed that they get cut off from the society and harm their personal lives.
4. Scams: Many predators are looking for vulnerable users that they can scam and make profit off.
5. Relationship frauds: Honeytraps and MMS porn are the most caused frauds online. People are lured in to relationships and love schemes and then they are cheated on.
6. Health issues: The excess use of social media can affect your physical and mental health in a big way. People often complaint of becoming lazy, fat, itchy eyes, loss of vision and stress issues after excessive use.
7. Loss of social and family life: Everyone busy on phone is one of the most common sites in a family gathering nowadays.
Conclusion: We have millions of users around the world that use social media on day to day basis. There is a mixed bag of reactions regarding it. It does have a lot of importance and advantages but also brings with it some hazards also.
 We cannot ignore the fact that social media is one of the biggest element that is present in our lives today. We can get any information, talk to anyone in any corner of the world at a much fast speed. The youth is the future of our nation; they can make or break the economy. Social media is one the most engaging elements that is present in their lives today. Social media has far reaching impact on the youth, as they are the ones who are most active on social networking sites. Social media has far reaching impact on the youth, as they are the ones who are most active on social networking sites.
Social Network Impact on Youth
It's a fad these days to be on social networking sites. If you do not have a digital presence than for some people you do not exist. The ever rising pressure of being on social networking sites and have an impressive profile is effecting the youth in big way. According to statistics average number of hours a teenager spends online is 72 hours per week.

